That sounds like hell, why are you trying to do so many EECS courses at once?
Any 3 EECS courses together is already pretty bad
I took this three eecs classes together. 370 and 484 are doable. If you have a good bit of web dev experience, you can throw 485 in there. Otherwise, might be a lot to take on. 
I'm going to piggy-back off this thread, because I don't want /r/uofm to be full of the same posts.

Could I get some advice too, please?
I'm thinking of either 484 + 485 + last semester of language + easy 1/2 minicredit
or
388 + 485 + last semester of language + easy 1/2minicredit

Is there any differences in difficulty between 388/485 vs 484/485?
Don't underestimate Stats 413 especially if it's with Yukai Sun again (which it probably will be). The class is extremely theoretical and the homeworks are almost entirely proof based. I did alright in Math 217 and EECS 203 so I don't think I'm that awful at theoretical math/proofs, but I pretty much can't finish any of the hw assignments without going to multiple office hour sessions.

According to one of the GSIs, last semester the class was mostly Cs and Bs and very very few As. Our first exam had an average  72.5%, which is considered a C- under his planned grading scale (though I think he stated that he would likely lower the scale a bit).

I actually do like the class quite a bit (a lot of people don't), but I really wish I took it in a lighter semester.
Depends, on how focused you are and your work ethic. 

If you consistently get atleast an A- among your EECS and math classes, then you should be fine. 

Be prepared to work on homework and projects 7 days a week for several hours.
485 is not hard or very time consuming unless you're really focused on killing the exams. 370 and 484 are a bit more but also a level easier / less time consuming than 281. I'd personally try and spread these into 2 semesters but I think you could handle 3/4 if you don't take any other class.
The schedule is a yikes
The HW is biweekly and sometimes every one and half a week. You won’t spend more than 3 hours on each HW. But The class usually has quizzes. 

I guess on average, 4-5 hour per week (including going to lectures) other than exam weeks are pretty much enough. 

It is one of the easiest 400 level math class, slightly harder than 425.
Math 423 isn't too bad in my opinion. I don't know if the class varies significantly Prof to Prof, but I thought that it was very much a plug and chug kinda class with an emphasis on calculation and number crunching rather than theoretical rigor. This is good and bad depending on what you like. Overall I would agree that it is slightly more difficult than 425, but ultimately not a class to worry about compared to those EECS courses. Which, by the way, are gonna be a hell of a time lol. Have "fun".
pretty easy
The one you have the strongest interest in 
I've never taken the class, nor am I a math major, but I've heard that 425 is one of the easiest upper level math/stats classes. 
