I heard that EECS 478 is kinda boring. I haven't personally taken it though so ymmv

EECS 427 _is_ 24/7 but I thought it was fun and getting your processor working at the end feels magical :)
I have taken both of these.

427 is a 24/7 job, but it does feel satisfying seeing a processor you made essentially by hand working at the end. However, it does require a bit of background on how transistors work and how they become logic gates (see its prereq eecs 312). But, if you have that background, are capable of sinking a lot of time into it, and have genuine interest in the topic, it is a good course.

478 is all about how synthesis programs work and how they transform your verilog into a circuit and optimize it for performance. This also includes stuff like scheduling. I found the hw was reasonably difficult, never felt like it wasnt covered in class, and the programming projects were definitely a challenge but office hours was the main way i survived. But, the professor is most certainly boring in my opinion, which does not help it is a morning class. A lot of it is just him reading the slides but there are a few whiteboard drawings. But if youre interested in how these tools and their algorithms works, id say its a rewarding course.
When I took it last year, a student asked the professor if this would be a good idea. The professor said that it would not be a good idea. 

&#x200B;

Just for reference, in 470, there were days when my group and I spent over 10 hours trying to catch bugs and designing tricky pieces of hardware. 427 is supposedly more time consuming, so I wouldn't try both at the same time
I am also thinking about this...
You can mail your graduate coordinator...I believe it's Kristen Thornton and she will send you an override request form to fill. 
Once that's completed you can enrol for that course again.
Not sure if it's helpful, but this class is also offered both in winter and fall ( I just took it this past winter, also Solid State Nanotech area for specialization). 

So if you can't get in this semester, you can try for next!
What about TCHNCLM 496?
[deleted]
Took 301 with 280 and 216 and it was the smallest workload of the three by a significant margin if that helps.
