The labs have some embedded content, but the lecture is mostly control systems and their applications. Still a very enjoyable class imo, but maybe not if you dislike control systems lol
I found doing labs in Simulink to be absolutely excruciating. 461 goes deeper into control systems than 473 for sure, but the whole time I was thinking "I really wish I could just write some C right now." 

FWIW, don't expect 473 to "teach" you a depth of knowledge in lecture. I learned so much during that semester, but it is completely centered around the final project, even moreso than 373. You will learn some stuff in lecture, but it is largely there to introduce you to to the topics you might use in the project. Then over the course of the project you will learn so much more about the topics you do use because you'll need to dig into the material in more detail to get the project working properly.
Here is a discord link to a server I made for the class. Don't really know how to share it with everyone though. https://discord.gg/ynPWtHY9
https://groupme.com/join_group/84262243/I0i3fCo0
You should always have a backup, when you're put on the waitlist. They won't open more labs. They only had one room with 5-6 lab stations (one of the lab's motors was getting fixed) for labs last semester, so they can only accomodate so many students.
The professor for 461 did send an email saying to not bank on there being many more open seats, I would figure out a backup if I were you

P.s. I don't know if you have already, but make sure to fill this out.
https://deptapps.engin.umich.edu/ece/override
460 is more control theory and 461 is more hands on embedded controls. 460 has more ME application and 461 more CE. I liked both.
460 covers control topics in-depth while 461 is more like application based. 460 is a  very useful class if you plan to study control, power and energy systems. Moreover, the feedback theory covered in 460 will also help you understand the feedback system basics and help you design analog circuits with feedback loops. 
461 is useful If you want to do some controls and also gain some low level programming experience. 

Take 460 if you want to study control theory in-depth.
Take 373, 473 if you want to study embedded systems in-depth.
Take 461 if you want to explore both fields. ✌✌
This question is best served by asking engineering advising. Idk their number, but the number for newnan lsa advising is 734-764-0332. If you're lazy call them and ask to be transferred. 
I took 460. It hits the ground running right away. If you're pretty familiar with LTI systems, feedback control (PID), and differential equations go for it
