How does it feel being the 1%?
Hey, I promise this gets better my friend. Take care of yourself, drop this stupid class, and just get yourself a couple W's. Mental health is a lot more important to your future success than fucking EECS 203.  I know you already know that, but it can be easy to lose perspective when you're feeling so frustrated with yourself and your circumstances.
Will you sign my mousepad?
W
What was your score
Hey friend. Keep your head up. 

I failed 203 my first time taking it. Passed with a C my second time. 

I graduated last year and am now working as a software engineer. It gets better :)
Do you know the muffin man?
[deleted]
If it makes you feel better, I failed 203 the first time I took it and also got a C in 281. I’ve interned at a FAANG (top tier tech company) and got a return offer. You don’t have to give up
How do you know you got the lowest score?
How does this class compare to 183? How much worse is it?
My dude, it will get better. Don't forget that this class has no real impact on your future since you just dropped.
[deleted]
Would you like a hug?
Did you study? Are you gonna drop out? Do you need help?
Fellow 203 failure from W19 here: While you may be alone in having the lowest score, you are definitely not alone on the path through EECS. You can do this! But don't feel like you lost a battle if this changes your plans :)
I just wanted to say I'm proud of you friend. I see so many people on here who fail something and start spiraling and acting like the world is over, and it's great to see someone laugh it off and move on, even if that means dropping a class. Best way to get through these shit show engineering degrees imo. Not trying to shame anyone who expresses disappointment in themselves, it's just refreshing to see something like this. 

Sincerely,

A washed up fifth year senior who's failed her fair share of exams
Fuck 203
I honestly hate this class with a passion. I definitely know how you feel (to an extent ofc). That exam fucked me and with 280 I feel more shat on (especially since now somehow I’m involved in some shit show with the honor council for 280 which broke me down thankfully at least a day after the 203 exam). 

But I can’t imagine how it feels knowing that out of hundreds of people you are dead last, but proving it over again and making yourself be better at it whether you drop it now or not, will feel leagues better. But ofc that’s easier said than done, but then again that’s the motto for everything. 

Life’s a bitch but you keep living.
Want to know how I did on my first exam at the community college? 68%

Want to know how I did on my second exam at the community college? 39%

A bad exam score isn't the end of the world, it gets better. If you don't see yourself passing, get out of that class and focus on your other courses. There's always next semester to retake things.
Me too but in Math 215, dw you're not the only one this semester sucks
how did you do in EECS 183?
Are you switching majors
:(
You've got this! Don't let this affect your self worth the tiniest bit. You belong here and you can do this!
Thanks. Your post made me feel a little bit better. :)
How much time did you spend studying and what sort of stuff did you spend that time on (going over slides/notes vs practice problems) ?
Was it one of those fill in the bubble multiple choice exams? If so, did you use a No. 2 pencil?
I got the highest MECHENG 240 score once
