545 is a great class. Highly recommend it. It’s not easy, but it’s very rewarding and you learn a lot in it. Possibly the big difference is that in 545, you might have the algorithm explained to you, and then might be asked to (1) derive the crucial step in it, (2) implement it in Python, and then (3) see how it performs on a provided dataset. Other classes might only ask you to do (2) and/or (3).
I would assume the EECS version is a lot more theory and probably requires more math knowledge than the SI version considering SI 670 is applied machine learning (focusing on how to use machine learning in the real world; I get emails asking for real world datasets that the students can use for that course every few months) while EECS 445/545 is just machine learning and has warnings about making sure you have a strong foundation in linear algebra/probability before taking the course. You should be learning basically the same general ideas in both. I think the main difference would be how deep into the math and theory you go.

It depends on if you care more about application or theory. Generally, SI focuses more on immediate real world application (skipping a lot of the theory or only giving you enough to do what you need but not doing a super deep dive) while EECS places much more emphasis on theory. Theoretically, you can get away with super good grades in all the SI ML related courses with zero college math or only one intro statistics course (doesn't mean no math abilities, just able to understand and learn the minimum required math on the spot). I would assume that is much more difficult to pull off with the EECS versions.

SI tends to be very good at having an updated syllabus on their website [here](https://www.si.umich.edu/programs/courses) and EECS tends to have at least one older version of their courses on a website if you search for it. EECS might switch between matlab/python depending on professor, SI tries to do everything in python/keras if you care about language/tools. 

EDIT: readability
I took 445 last sem and can say that's it's a lot more theory heavy than the SI one (probably), I feel it helps you learn the concepts better but that's just personal opinion, if you've taken calc1-3 and linear (and 281) then I'd def try 445 if you like more theory heavy classes
I took SI 670 last fall. It is a good class if you’re taking an ML class for the first time but like the other comments there’s not a lot of theory about ML that’s taught in this class, which is something that I now wish I had more knowledge about. One big critic from the students was that this class did not have any linear math or matrix math as is requirement but being knowledgeable in linear math was expected by the professor. Being from the CS background I had no issue with that but it was a hurdle for some
