From what I recall 314 is not a substitute for 215 for EE/CE
314 is for non-eecs students, I believe. Eecs 230 discussion was not required when I took it, as it was just time for the professor to go over more textbook problems that could be related to the exams.
[deleted]
The main difference I would see is money. If you take less than 12 credits, you're a part time student, and the pay structure is different. I would figure out how much it costs to do it in different configurations.

&#x200B;

If money is no object to you, it's mostly about how you want to use your free time, and when you want to have it. You could take classes that you find interesting that are low stakes, put more time towards your out of school passions, or do more research. It's really a personal choice. Maybe free time matters more to you in the summer because you love hiking or maybe you'd rather have time to take an art class or film class in the winter. I don't think either one of them is "better" in any concrete way.
Have you considered consulting an academic advisor?
Used to do some of the advising for the department. That's a rough schedule.

EECS-314 is tedious and takes itself FAR too seriously, so it has a lot of busywork and eats time.

320 isn't very difficult. Very similar to thermo in approach and workload.

382 is a lot of tedious work. But it's more of a memorization type exercise. All of that materials structure junk has no consistency or "rules" from what I remember.

350 isn't too bad until you get neck deep in the project. Then it's a lot of work to build everything and meet your deadlines.

If you're very motivated and keep on top of all of your assignments early, you can swing that schedule. It's going to be a little rough at times, and then *REALLY* rough for a week or two near the end when everything's due at the same time.
It's doable, but you'll probably have some extra tough weeks. Eecs is cake but has a lot of busy work, and 350 will take up a lot of time too. The others are pretty standard engineering classes. Usually 320 uses mostly textbook problems for homework so you can use a solution manual if you're into that.
Please post in https://www.reddit.com/r/uofm/comments/61eo5w/fall_2017_course_discussion/
No IOE classes are offered. I've only ever heard of EECS (and maybe MechE?) offering undergrad spring/summer classes in the CoE. 

Talk to your department advisor. They'll know what's available and what your options are. 
There is one 400 level IOE project management course offered abroad in France. 
EECS 314 (ME circuits class) had them but I think Ganago went away from it. Otherwise it’s pretty rare. Wait to sell until you graduate imo
