EECS 453 is the undergrad version of EECS 551; however the two courses are taught from the same lecture, have the same homework assignments, and have exams with the same questions at the same time. So it is sort of an undergraduate course in name only. That being said, there are select questions on the homework assignments that those in 453 don't need to do - they're typically more heavily proof based and rigorous than the other questions. Additionally, one or two of the questions on the exams are left as "optional" for the 453 crowd and can give you a bump in score if you get them 100% right. The ratio of grad students to undergrads in 551/453 is probably around 4:1.

All that aside, I took the class a year ago in fall 2015 and it was great. The course is entirely based around linear algebra, so if you haven't taken MATH 214, 217, 417, or 419 then it may be a bit trickier. The class will teach the relevant portions of linear algebra as it progresses, but I could see it being a bit of a data dump at the beginning if you've no experience with linear spaces and the like.

At the time I was taking the class I was in full "get a job" mode so I was spending a good portion of my time applying to jobs, going to networking events and interviews on campus, flying across the country and interviewing in different places. I say that to preface the fact that I got an A- in the course without having completed a good portion of the homework assignments. The homework assignments are *not* really doable in a single sitting, but screwing up here and there won't dramatically impact your grade. However, I wish I was able to do all of the homework assignments in full because they're genuinely interesting and cool things. There are projects from the homeworks that you'll complete and go "holy damn that shit's magic." For example, I took [this picture](http://imgur.com/sk59Rnu) and [this picture](http://imgur.com/WCBXGqp) and then meshed the two to make [this picture.](http://imgur.com/hvDV7tG) And that's not even the coolest stuff done in the class. 

Now I'm a full time signal processing engineer and while I don't use specific algorithms from the class on a daily basis, I use the basis of knowledge that the class is really trying to sell you on daily. Were it not for this class I'd have a hell of a time understanding the tracking project using Kalman filters that I was part of a while ago as well as the compressive sensing stuff I do now. Bottom line: take the class. It's fun, rewarding, and it'll teach you a lot. The linear algebra might be hard if you don't have a ton of background, but that's pretty much what the discussion sections are for. As an aside, taking this class before a machine learning course will pay off in spades, if that's something you're interested in.
