There are a lot of classes in the EECS department that kind of suck to get through and I know of a lot of people who have failed multiple times. Sometimes you have to take the shitty classes to take the really fun ones you enjoy. 

When I hit the 370/376 slog I felt the way you did - I just wanted to leave and I thought about transferring out of Computer Science and felt like I was wasting time doing stuff I wasn't good at or didn't enjoy. My professor for 370 even suggested maybe I was on the wrong track. But I was in so deep and it was too late to switch. At that point I decided to just push through and get my degree. 

I'm really happy I did because after that I was able to take classes that I really enjoy and love even though I had to "suffer".

EECS is really hard and there are a lot of different sides to it. Some of those topics might not be interesting and they might be really really difficult.

You're not alone in the way you're feeling and I wish you the best.
I don't know what emotions you're going through, but I do know I was in a similar place at some point. 

I was in Engineering 2013-16, and dropped out WI 2016 after failing Diff EQ 3 times and not feeling confident enough to pass the 4th time. I had to take two years off, and just worked in a part time job during that time. While on break, I found other stuff I was decent at, re-applied to get back in, and am now graduating from SI with like a third of a master's done. 

What I hope to  convey is, I too felt that anger as I came back to school and realized I'd be graduating 4 years later than I wanted to, in a field I'd previously treated as lesser. I still do, to be honest. What I can say is, if you're angry try to figure out if it's something else besides 370 that could be driving it. For me it's a feeling of disappointment and shame that I let down high school-me, and a frustration that being in uni is necessary to do really anything.  


That feels rambly, but I hope that helps??? I'm finishing my last assignment today, so I might revisit this in the evening
To quote a famous philosopher: “the dark side of the force is a pathway to many abilities some consider to be unnatural.”  There’s a time and a place for everything. Anger in the proper context is an effective motivating tool.  You’re clearly passionate about CS.  Use your anger to motivate you if that’s what you need to do to pass.

As for passing 370: I’ve never taken it but I’ve taken 203/280/281 and the single most effective tool I found for those classes was old tests.  There’s tons of them out there on the internet or if you know anyone that’s already taken the class.
370 is seriously the worst lol but I'm sure over the many years that its been a part of the CS degree, you aren't the only person who has had to retake it multiple times.
Sorry to hear that you're going through this. Maybe talking to a licensed therapist might help. I know there are a lot of virtual opportunities available right now due to COVID.
Ugh 370. I personally hated it too. None of the content really clicked for me, and I think low level concepts just aren't very interesting to me.

Don't worry you're not the only one that had to take it multiple times. I took it 3 times before I passed it, so I promise you that you are definitely not alone. I took it Winter '19, Spring '19, and Spring '20. The only reason I passed it the third time I took it was because the professor was kind enough to give me an incomplete in the class. So, I finished the last 2 projects after the semester ended. AND the professor even let me retake the final after I had skipped it. 

The professor was incredibly kind, but I definitely didn't deserve the B- that I got in the class. The professor gave me basically all of summer to complete the last 2 projects and I'm pretty sure the final exam that I was given was much easier than the exam given to other people in the class. EECS professors are usually never this lenient but considering it was the middle of the pandemic, I'm glad he worked with me to actually pass the class. 

I'm not sure how helpful my story is too you, but I hope you reach out to someone to ask for help.
Just remember, these EECS classes don't define your ability as a programmer and more importantly a person. Personality traits are far more valuable in the workforce and life, so don't feel like a failure for potentially repeating 370 three times in a row. I know some who failed EECS 280 so many times he technically couldn't graduate with an EE degree, but after getting the requirement waived and pushing through the next semesters he graduated and is now working a very good job and outperforming his team, some of his team are even graduates from MIT. These classes are important, but they are not everything, don't be so harsh on your self! The environments we put our selves in usually try to convince us otherwise, but really the things your gifted in and the totality of the work you put in towards your career will determine your success in the future, and school only comprises a small component of this. Forget about the past and only remember what its taught you, you will have plenty of opportunity in the future to make it up, you just have to chose the right moves.
>Now I’m feeling this anger that I haven’t felt in the 2 years I’ve been here. It’s the same anger I had when I wanted to leave my previous environment. I want to graduate from U of M but not in any normal way. I want to escape, just like before. I’ve become fearful over these past few semesters of how close I’ve come to failing and barely scraping by. I’ve only failed once so far which was EECS 370. Failing it again is too much. Anything more it’ll get to the point where I will burn through my grant money. At that point I won’t be able to afford coming here anymore and all the effort would’ve gone to waste. My time enrolled at this university has went from curiosity, and amazement, and has slowly been turning into annoyance then anxiety and constant fear, and now I’m seeing darkness and my body is shaking from intense anger. Now I feel like I’m being pushed to become that raging individual again... which brings the absolute worse out of me.

This sounds less like an academic issue and more like a mental health issue that's made an academic issue. 

It took me until my junior year winter semester to go to CAPS and get the help I needed. I had just gotten off a course load that included 370, 376, my ULWR, and another 4 credit class and I felt burnt out, like an imposter, angry at the system that decided the best way to test its students was to test them about what they didn't know rather than what they did. I felt crippled by anxiety about my future and my prospects. I was in a dark place. 

I'm medicated and a year in therapy plus success in the last year and a half have really helped me feel much more confident of who I am, appreciate the education I've received, and carry myself as soon-to-be Michigan alumnus. It wasn't easy and it took a lot of work on my part, but I know it was worth it. And I know that you, stranger, are worth it too. Please, get the help that you need. <3
I feel like part of the aggression is this reputation Michigan throws onto us to be the very best, and it starts to make us compare ourselves to that standard when we’re all smart and amazing in ways that aren’t always the ones that people value all the time. You are valuable. I would consider you very lucky to have gotten in and made it through so many hurdles. 

The most help I can give you is telling you how I made it through the 4 years at U of M, and that’s  by making as many friends as I could. Even though some of those friends added on to my stress, I still had those 3-4 people I could count on to help me through the darkness. If not for them I would have probably had a nervous breakdown and left the school. Especially because I’m black, come from a family that isn’t rich, from a different state, and I’m an artist. I was very alone for long periods of time with nothing but my treacherous, self-doubting thoughts. But you found something you love to do, so that should fuel you to do better and finish.

Whatever you do, don’t fall back into old ways. The person you were before you started this journey is long gone. You are something better now! Keep fighting the fight, you aren’t the only one!
Good time for a change
https://www.ratemyprofessors.com/ShowRatings.jsp?tid=2283397

I took it. Generally a good class. Most of our class agreed that the IA's were more helpful than Nicole. A lot of the lectures are repetitive, but definitely worth watching. It's a good MDE and it's always a great talking point with recruiters/interviewers. Do your research before you start.

Also, Nicole actually wrote MSN Search. She has a wealth of knowledge that you should capitalize on. I've gone to her office hours just to talk and she's really interesting.
Is it taught by the same prof for EECS549 // SI 650, Jurgens?
How much you struggled with 203 (assuming 203 was actually new material for you) is a reasonable indicator of how much you will struggle with 376, so you can use that to inform your decision.
[deleted]
Taking EECS 376 && 485 right now, definitely doable and I was not the best at 203. I recommend discussion and OH, they help a lot with HW and exams; also where you can meet other people and maybe form a HW group.
Death and taxes guaranteed
